# Introduction to Git and GitHub - Week 2

## Advanced Git interaction

### Git Commands Cheatsheet

* git commit -a: Stages files automatically
* git log -p: Produces patch text
* git show: Shows various objects
* git diff: Is similar to the Linux `diff` command, and can show the differences in various commits
* git diff --staged: An alias to --cached, this will show all staged files compared to the named commit
* git add -p: Allows a user to interactively review patches to add to the current commit
* git mv: Similar to the Linux `mv` command, this moves a file
* git rm: Similar to the Linux `rm` command, this deletes, or removes a file

---

## Undoing Things

### Git Revert Cheatsheet

* git checkout: Used to switch branches
* git reset: Resets the repo by throwing away some changes
* git commit --amend: Make changes to commits after-the-fact, which can be useful for making notes about a given commit
* git revert:  Makes a new commit which effectively rolls back a previous commit. It’s a bit like an undo command

### Ammeding Commits

Avoid amending commits that have already been made public.

### Identifying a Commit

The commit ID is the 40 character long string after the word commit generated by SHA1 algorithm. Git doesn't use these hashes for security. Instead, they're used to guarantee the consistency of our repository.

---

## Branching and Merging

### Git Branching and Merging Cheatsheet

* git branch:  Used to manage branches
* git branch \<name>: Creates the branch
* git branch -d \<name>: Deletes the branch
* git branch -D \<name>: Forcibly deletes the branch
* git checkout \<branch>: Switches to a branch.
* git checkout -b \<branch>: Creates a new branch and switches to it.
* git merge \<branch>: Merge joins branches together.
* git merge --abort: If there are merge conflicts (meaning files are incompatible), --abort can be used to abort the merge action.
* git log --graph --oneline: This shows a summarized view of the commit history for a repo.

### What is a branch

A branch is a pointer to a particular commit. The default branch that Git creates for you when a new repository initialized is called master.

### Working with Branches

The working directory and commit history in git will be changed to reflect the snapshot of the project in that branch when switching branches.

### Merging

Merging is the term that Git uses for combining branch data and history together. Git uses two different algorithms to perform a merge, fast-forward and three-way merge.

* Fast-forward merge occurs when all the commits in the checked out branch are also in the branch that's being merged. If this is the case, we can say that the commit history of both branches doesn't diverge.
* Three-way merge is performed when the history of the merging branches has diverged in some way, and there isn't a nice linear path to combine them via fast-forwarding. This happens when a commit is made on one branch after the point when both branches split.

---

## Credit

* [Coursera - Introduction Git Github Week 2](https://www.coursera.org/learn/introduction-git-github/home/week/2)
